Add update dataflow in architecture document (#601)
vdaas/vald: docs/overview/architecture.md

15. Vald Egress Filter will return the filtered result to the Vald Filter Gateway.
16. Vald Filter Gateway will return the final result to the Vald Ingress.

### Update

<img src="../../assets/docs/update_flow.png" />

When the user updates a vector from Vald:

> 1. Vald Ingress receives the request from the user. The request includes the the vector ID(s) and the vector(s) to be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Vald Ingress receives the request from the user. The request includes the new vector ID(s) and the vector(s) to be updated.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Vald Ingress receives the request from the user. The request includes the the vector ID(s) and new vector(s) to be updated instead of the current indexed one.
```
 @kevindiu @hlts2 
how is it?
is it verbose? 🤔

Reviewer: I think it is verbose.

> 1. Vald Ingress receives the request from the user. The request includes the new vector ID(s) and the vector(s) to be updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Vald Ingress receives the request from the user. The request includes the vector ID(s) and the new vector(s) to be updated.
```
Is this right?

Reviewer: how about this?
```suggestion
1. Vald Ingress receives the request from the user. The request includes the existing vector ID(s) and the new vector(s) to be updated.
```

Reviewer 2: I think your suggestion seems like strict correct. 👍

2. Vald Ingress will forward the request to the Vald Filter Gateway to pre-process the request data.
3. Vald Filter Gateway will forward the request to the user-defined Vald Ingress Filter. After the Vald Ingress Filter received the request, it will perform the pre-processing logic defined by the user, for example, padding the vector to match the vector dimension in Vald.
4. After the request is processed by the user-defined Vald Ingress Filter, the result will return to the Vald Filter Gateway.
5. Vald Filter Gateway will forward the processed data to the Vald Meta Gateway. Vald Meta Gateway is used to resolve the internal used UUID(s) from Vald Meta to the user inserted vector ID(s) in the Insert Step.

> 6. Vald Meta Gateway will forward the request to the Vald Meta to confirm whether the metadata, which contains the request ID(s), exists or not.

Reviewer: is `request ID` means the vector ID from the request? For my understanding, `request ID` means the unique ID for each request. 
I think it is better to change it to `vector ID(s)` if it mean so

Author: yes. `request ID` means `vector ID`
> I think it is better to change it to vector ID(s) if it mean so

I think so too. so I will fix to `vector ID(s)`

> 7. Vald Meta gets the UUID by the request ID. It returns an error if no UUID is found.

Reviewer: sorry but may I confirm what is `request ID`?

Author: I think `request ID(s)` is correct.

> 7. Vald Meta gets the UUID(s) by the request ID(s). It returns an error if no UUID(s) is found.

Reviewer: I am not sure if it can update multiple vectors at the same request, if so then we should use `UUID` instead of `UUIDs`?
```suggestion
7. Vald Meta gets the UUID by the request ID. It returns an error if no UUID is found.
```

> 8. If Vald Meta Gateway gets the UUID(s), Vald Meta Gateway will forward the request with the UUID(s) to the Vald Backup Gateway.

Reviewer: should we change all `UUID(s)` to `UUID` if it can only process one vector (one UUID) at the same request?

Author: yes, but I think we should rewrite another PR.
because this PR is only update data flow document:bow:

cc: @vankichi

Reviewer: I mean in update flow only, I think we have `bulkInsert` but I am not sure do we have `bulkUpdate`

Author: ok. 
In this case, I think the UUID is correct, so I will correct it. What do you think?

Reviewer: @vankichi what do you think?

Reviewer 2: @kevindiu @hlts2 
I thinks using UUID(s) is correct because of https://github.com/vdaas/vald/blob/feature/architecture/divide-gateway-and-refactor/pkg/gateway/meta/handler/grpc/handler.go#L343

> 8. If Vald Meta Gateway gets the UUID(s), Vald Meta Gateway will forward it to the request with the UUID(s) to the Vald Backup Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. If Vald Meta Gateway gets the UUID(s), Vald Meta Gateway will forward the request with the UUID(s) to the Vald Backup Gateway.
```
need not `it to`??

> 9. Vald Backup Gateway splits the update step into the deletion and insertion step. First is the deletion step. Vald Backup Gateway will forward the deletion request with the UUID(s) to the Vald LB Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Vald Backup Gateway splits the update step into the deletion step and the insertion step. First is the deletion step. Vald Backup Gateway will forward the deletion request with the UUID(s) to the Vald LB Gateway.
```

> 9. Vald Backup Gateway splits the updation step into the deletion and insertion step. First is the deletion step. Vald Backup Gateway will forward to the deletion request with the UUID(s) to the Vald LB Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Vald Backup Gateway splits the update step into the deletion and insertion step. First is the deletion step. Vald Backup Gateway will forward the deletion request with the UUID(s) to the Vald LB Gateway.
```

Reviewer 2: I think updation is unknown word.

10. Vald LB Gateway will broadcast the request with UUID(s) to the Vald Agents. Each Vald Agent will delete the vector data and the metadata if the corresponding UUID(s) is found in the in-memory graph index.

> 11. If each Vald Agent successfully deletes the request data, it will return success to the Vald LB Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Each Vald Agent will return success to the Vald LB Gateway if it deletes the request data successfully.
```

> 11. If Vald Agent successfully deletes the request data, it will return success to the Vald LB Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. If each Vald Agent successfully deletes the request data, it will return success to the Vald LB Gateway.
```

12. After Vald LB Gateway receives success with the location info (e.g. IP address of pod) from the Vald Agent, Vald LB Gateway will return success to the Vald Backup Gateway.

> 13. Vald Backup Gateway will forward the request with the UUID to the Vald Compressor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
13. Vald Backup Gateway will forward the request with the UUID(s) to the Vald Compressor.
```

14. Vald Compressor will forward the UUID(s) to the Vald Backup Manager.
15. Vald Backup Manager will delete the data with the same UUID(s).

> 16. The next is the insertion step described in 9. Vald Backup Gateway will forward the insertion request to Vald LB Gateway. Vald LB Gateway will determine which Vald Agent(s) to process the request based on the resource usage of the nodes and pods, and the number of vector replicas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
16. The insertion step described in 9 will start after the deletion steps. Vald Backup Gateway will forward the insertion request to the Vald LB Gateway. Vald LB Gateway will determine which Vald Agent(s) to process the request based on the resource usage of the nodes and pods, and the number of vector replicas.
```

> 17. Vald LB Gateway will forward the UUID and the vector data to the selected Vald Agents in parallel. Vald Agent will insert the vector and UUID in an in-memory vector queue. A vector queue will be committed to an ANN graph index by a `CreateIndex` instruction executed by the Vald Index Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
17. Vald LB Gateway will forward the UUID and the vector data to the selected Vald Agents in parallel. Vald Agent will insert the vector and the UUID(s) in an in-memory vector queue. A vector queue will be committed to the graph index by a `CreateIndex` instruction which will be executed by the Vald Index Manager.
```

> 17. Vald LB Gateway will forward the UUID and the vector data to the selected Vald Agents in parallel. Vald Agent will insert the vector and the UUID(s) in an in-memory vector queue. A vector queue will be committed to the graph index by a `CreateIndex` instruction which will be executed by the Vald Index Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
17. Vald LB Gateway will forward each set of the UUID and the vector data to the selected Vald Agents in parallel. Vald Agent will insert the vector(s) and the UUID(s) in an in-memory vector queue. A vector queue will be committed to the graph index by a `CreateIndex` instruction which will be executed by the Vald Index Manager.
```

18. If Vald Agent successfully inserts the request data, it will return success (e.g. IP address of pod) to the Vald LB Gateway.
19. After Vald LB Gateway receives success from the selected Vald Agents, it will return IP addresses of all selected Vald Agents to the Vald Backup Gateway.

> 20. Vald Backup Gateway will asynchronously send all the inserted data (vector(s), vector ID(s), UUID(s) and IP address(es)) to the Vald Compressor. Vald Compressor will compress the vector data asynchronously to reduce the size of the vector data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
20. Vald Backup Gateway will asynchronously send all of the inserted data (contains vector, vector ID, UUID and IP address) to the Vald Compressor. Vald Compressor will compress the vector data asynchronously to reduce the size of the vector data.
```

Reviewer: I think `including` is better than `contains` 🤔
```suggestion
20. Vald Backup Gateway will asynchronously send all of the inserted data (including vector, vector ID, UUID and IP address) to the Vald Compressor. Vald Compressor will compress the vector data asynchronously to reduce the size of the vector data.```

> 20. Vald Backup Gateway will asynchronously send all of the inserted data (including vector, vector ID, UUID and IP address) to the Vald Compressor. Vald Compressor will compress the vector data asynchronously to reduce the size of the vector data.```

Reviewer 2: 🤔

> 20. Vald Backup Gateway will asynchronously send all the inserted data (including vector, vector ID, UUID and IP address) to the Vald Compressor. Vald Compressor will compress the vector data asynchronously to reduce the size of the vector data.```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
20. Vald Backup Gateway will asynchronously send all the inserted data (including vector, vector ID, UUID and IP address) to the Vald Compressor. Vald Compressor will compress the vector data asynchronously to reduce the size of the vector data.
```

Author: :bow:

> 21. Vald Compressor will forward the data (compressed vector(s), vector ID(s), UUID(s) and IP address(es)) to the Vald Backup Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
21. Vald Compressor will forward all of the compressed data (contains compressed vector, vector ID, UUID and IP address) to the Vald Backup Manager.
```

Reviewer: same
```suggestion
21. Vald Compressor will forward all of the compressed data (including compressed vector, vector ID, UUID and IP address) to the Vald Backup Manager.```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
21. Vald Compressor will forward all of the compressed data (including compressed vector, vector ID, UUID and IP address) to the Vald Backup Manager.
```

22. Vald Backup Manager will store all of the data to the persistent layer such as MySQL, Cassandra, etc., to prevent the data lost in Vald.

> 23. Vald Backup Gateway returns success to Vald Meta Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
23. Vald Backup Gateway returns success to the Vald Meta Gateway.
```

<!-- ### Update -->

When the user updates a vector from Vald:

> 1. Vald Ingress receives the request from the user. The request includes the vector and the vector ID.

Reviewer: Is it includes the old vector ID, and the new vector?

Author: yes. it is.

Author: but, I can not understand about old vector ID.
VectorID is not re-generated. so I think vector ID is correct.

Reviewer: Is it correct?
```suggestion
1. Vald Ingress receives the request from the user. The request includes the new vector and the vector ID to be update.
```

Author: thank you :bow:

<!-- ### Update -->

<img src="../../assets/docs/update_flow.png" />

When the user updates a vector from Vald:

> 1. Vald Ingress receives the request from the user. The request includes the new vector and the vector ID to be update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Vald Ingress receives the request from the user. The request includes the new vector and the vector ID to be updated.
```

2. Vald Ingress will forward the request to the Vald Filter Gateway to pre-process the request data.
3. Vald Filter Gateway will forward the request to the user-defined Vald Ingress Filter. After the Vald Ingress Filter received the request, it will perform the pre-processing logic defined by the user, for example, padding the vector to match the vector dimension in Vald.
4. After the request is processed by the user-defined Vald Ingress Filter, the result will return to the Vald Filter Gateway.
5. Vald Filter Gateway will forward the processed data to the Vald Meta Gateway. Vald Meta Gateway is used to resolve the internal used UUID from Vald Meta to the user inserted vector ID in the Insert Step.

> 6. Vald Meta Gateway will forward the request to the Vald Meta to confirm whether the metadata, which contains the request ID(s), exist or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Vald Meta Gateway will forward the request to the Vald Meta to confirm whether the metadata, which contains the request ID(s), exists or not.
```

> 7. Vald Meta gets the UUID(s) by the request ID(s). It return error if no UUID(s) is found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Vald Meta gets the UUID(s) by the request ID(s). It returns an error if no UUID(s) is found.
```

> 7. Vald Meta gets the UUID(s) by the request ID(s). Return error if no UUID(s) is found, return with the error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Vald Meta gets the UUID(s) by the request ID(s). It return error if no UUID(s) is found.
```

> 8. If Vald Meta Gateway gets the UUID(s), Vald Meta Gateway will forward to the request with the UUID(s) to the Vald Backup Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. If Vald Meta Gateway gets the UUID(s), Vald Meta Gateway will forward it to the request with the UUID(s) to the Vald Backup Gateway.
```

> 9. Vald Backup Gateway splits the updating step into deletion and insertion step. First is the deletion step. Vald Backup Gateway will forward to the deletion request with the UUID(s) to the Vald LB Gateway.

Author: ```suggestion
9. Vald Backup Gateway splits the updation step into deletion and insertion step. First is the deletion step. Vald Backup Gateway will forward to the deletion request with the UUID(s) to the Vald LB Gateway.
```

> 9. Vald Backup Gateway splits the updation step into deletion and insertion step. First is the deletion step. Vald Backup Gateway will forward to the deletion request with the UUID(s) to the Vald LB Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Vald Backup Gateway splits the updation step into the deletion and insertion step. First is the deletion step. Vald Backup Gateway will forward to the deletion request with the UUID(s) to the Vald LB Gateway.
```

> 9. Vald Backup Gateway splits the updating step into the deleting step and the inserting step. The first is the deleting step. Vald Backup Gateway will forward to the request with the UUID(s) to the Vald LB Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Vald Backup Gateway splits the updating step into deletion and insertion step. First is the deletion step. Vald Backup Gateway will forward to the deletion request with the UUID(s) to the Vald LB Gateway.
```

10. Vald LB Gateway will broadcast the request with UUID(s) to the Vald Agents. Each Vald Agent will delete the vector data and the metadata if the corresponding UUID(s) is found in the in-memory graph index.
11. If Vald Agent successfully deletes the request data, it will return success to the Vald LB Gateway.

> 12. After Vald LB Gateway receives success with location info (e.g. IP address of pod) from the Vald Agent, Vald LB Gateway will return success to the Vald Backup Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12. After Vald LB Gateway receives success with the location info (e.g. IP address of pod) from the Vald Agent, Vald LB Gateway will return success to the Vald Backup Gateway.
```

13. Vald Backup Gateway will forward the request with the UUID to the Vald Compressor.
14. Vald Compressor will forward the UUID(s) to the Vald Backup Manager.
15. Vald Backup Manager will delete the data with the same UUID(s).

> 16. The next is the inserting step described in 9. Vald Backup Gateway will forward the request to Vald LB Gateway. Vald LB Gateway will determine which Vald Agent(s) to process the request based on the resource usage of the nodes and pods, and the number of vector replicas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
16. The next is the insertion step described in 9. Vald Backup Gateway will forward the insertion request to Vald LB Gateway. Vald LB Gateway will determine which Vald Agent(s) to process the request based on the resource usage of the nodes and pods, and the number of vector replicas.
```

17. Vald LB Gateway will forward the UUID and the vector data to the selected Vald Agents in parallel. Vald Agent will insert the vector and UUID in an in-memory vector queue. A vector queue will be committed to an ANN graph index by a `CreateIndex` instruction executed by the Vald Index Manager.
18. If Vald Agent successfully inserts the request data, it will return success (e.g. IP address of pod) to the Vald LB Gateway.
19. After Vald LB Gateway receives success from the selected Vald Agents, it will return IP addresses of all selected Vald Agents to the Vald Backup Gateway.

> 20. Vald Backup Gateway will asynchronously send all the inserted the data (vector(s), vector ID(s), UUID(s) and IP address(es)) to the Vald Compressor. Vald Compressor will compress the vector data asynchronously to reduce the size of the vector data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
20. Vald Backup Gateway will asynchronously send all the inserted data (vector(s), vector ID(s), UUID(s) and IP address(es)) to the Vald Compressor. Vald Compressor will compress the vector data asynchronously to reduce the size of the vector data.
```

Reviewer: if it is copied from the create/delete flow, please also update it.
